# miniRT

**Raytracing** is an old - yet still very common method - for rendering algorithms that generate digital images. 

The goal of this project was to implement a ray tracing algorithm in C! (more detailed instructions can be found in the subject.pdf in the section 'Mandatory Part'). 

The following images are generated by this program:

/// add amazing rendering images

## Learning goals
- Understand representations and transformations of 3d scenes in computer graphics.
- How to calculate the intersection(s) between vecotrs and objects (spheres, planes, cylinders).
- How to translate the above points into code
- And of course **how to collaborate** on a project and split workload in an efficient way!

Core features of this raytracer are:
- Render spheres, planes and cylinders with any orienation and position in space
- Have a variable viewpoint, view orientation as well as field of view
- Combining ambient, diffuse (maybe even specular) light sources with different colors
- (Using threads to render images faster)

# Usage
*Note that the program is written with Linux. Other operating systems were not tested.*

## Installing and Compiling
1) Clone the repository and its submodule by ``` git clone --recursive ... ```
2) direct to the cloned folder ```<folder_name>```
3) ```make``` (automatically compile the libft and MiniLibX)

*Check the MiniLibX ReadMe in case of problems with the library.*

## Execution
The proram will read the input for the scene from a file in .rt format. The scenes/valid/ folder contains some example scenes.
* Example: ```./miniRT J ./scenes/valid/...rt```

To enable colored diffuse light sources add .. to the environment variables
``` export ... ```

# Sources
Realizing this project requires a deeper understanding of the raytracing algorithm as well as some literacy in linear algebra. The following list is a recommendation of sources for anyone who wants to know more about the topic:
| Topic								| Link                                                        	|
|----------------------------------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------|
| Linear Algebra					| [3Blue1Browns Playlist on Linear Algebra](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kjBOesZCoqc&list=PL0-GT3co4r2y2YErbmuJw2L5tW4Ew2O5B) |
| Raytracing technique				| [Scratchapixel](https://www.scratchapixel.com/index.html)	|
| Raytracing technique				| [Computer Graphics From Scratch](https://www.gabrielgambetta.com/computer-graphics-from-scratch/)]	|
| | |
